250 Migration Act 1958
Compilation No. 164 Compilation date: 21/02/2025Example 1: Andrew, George and Daniel each make an application for the grant of 
a visa. The Minister refuses to grant each applicant the visa and gives 
notice of the refusal decision to each applicant. The notice states that 
the applicant may make an application for review of the refusal 
decision within 30 days after the notice is received by the applicant.
While the notice substantially complies with the requirement in the 
Act to state the period within which an application for review must be 
made, the notice misstates the period. The correct period is 28 days 
after the notice is received by the applicant.
Andrew makes an application for review of the refusal decision 25 
days after receiving the notice. As the misstatement in the notice does 
not cause substantial prejudice to Andrew’s right to seek review, it is 
intended that subsection (2) would apply in relation to the notice given 
to Andrew.
George makes an application for review of the refusal decision 29 
days after receiving the notice. The misstatement in the notice causes 
substantial prejudice to George’s right to seek review as the 
application for review is not made within the required period but is 
made within the misstated period specified in the notice. It is intended 
that subsection (2) would not apply in relation to the notice given to 
George.
Daniel makes an application for review of the refusal decision 40 days 
after receiving the notice. The misstatement in the notice does not 
cause substantial prejudice to Daniel’s right to seek review as the 
application for review is made well after the required period. It is 
intended that subsection (2) would apply in relation to the notice given 
to Daniel.
Example 2: Anne applies for a visa and has an authorised recipient under 
section 494D. The Minister refuses to grant Anne the visa and gives 
notice of the refusal decision by sending an email to the authorised 
recipient. The authorised recipient receives the notice and 2 days later 
forwards it on to Anne.
The notice states that Anne may make an application for review of the 
refusal decision within 21 days after the day Anne receives the notice. 
The notice does not explain that the effect of sections 494C and 494D 
is that the period of 21 days begins to run on the day after the day the 
notice is received by the authorised recipient, rather than by Anne.
While the notice substantially complies with the requirement in the 
Act to state the period within which an application for review must be 
made, the notice misdescribes when that period begins to run.
Anne makes an application for review of the refusal decision 35 days 
after receiving the notice. The misdescription in the notice does not 